Tesla CEO Elon Musk says he favors ‘no tariffs’ on Chinese EVs
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said at a conference in Paris that he doesn’t agree with President Biden’s tariff on Chinese-made electric vehicle imports.
“Tesla competes quite well in the market in China with no tariffs and no deferential support,” Musk said. “I’m in favor of no tariffs.”
PARIS— TeslaCEO Elon Musk said that he doesn’t support President Biden’s recent announcement of a tariff on Chinese-made electric vehicles.“Neither Tesla nor I asked for these tariffs,” Musk said in response to a question from CNBC’s Karen Tso during a question and answer session at the VivaTech conference here on Thursday. “In fact, I was surprised when they were announced.”The Biden administration last week said it was placing a 100% tariff on Chinese-made electric vehicle imports to the U.S. in a bid to stop cheap Chinese EVs from flooding the U.S. market. The White House says Beijing’s subsidies are helping companies overproduce cheap clean energy products like solar panels and EVs that outpace domestic demand.Tesla has been struggling this year due to an aging fleet of EVs, weaker consumer demand for its vehicles and increased global competition, most notably in China. Revenue slumped in the first quarter by the most since 2012, and the stock price is down almost 30% in 2024.“Tesla competes quite well in the market in China with no tariffs and no deferential support,” Musk said on Thursday. “I’m in favor of no tariffs.”Musk added that he doesn’t agree with tax incentives for EVs, either.“I’m in favor of no tariffs and no incentives for electric vehicles, or for oil and gas,” the Tesla CEO said.Musk’s remarks Thursday come after he suggested earlier this year that Chinese EV companies will crush competitors elsewhere in the absence of trade restrictions.“Frankly, I think, if there are not trade barriers established, they will pretty much demolish most other companies in the world,” Musk said on the company’s earnings call in January.Earlier, when asked for his views on whether Biden’s 100% tariffs would give him to the green light to bring a lower-priced car to market, Musk’s line cut out and the audience were left for several minutes waiting for him to come back online.Some attendees left the dome where the Q&A session was being livestreamed.
Elon Musk says AI will take all our jobs
By Samantha Murphy Kelly, CNN(CNN) — Elon Musk says artificial intelligence will take all our jobs and that’s not necessarily a bad thing.“Probably none of us will have a job,” Musk said about AI at a tech conference on Thursday.While speaking remotely via webcam at VivaTech 2024 in Paris, Musk described a future where jobs would be “optional.”“If you want to do a job that’s kinda like a hobby, you can do a job,” Musk said. “But otherwise, AI and the robots will provide any goods and services that you want.”For this scenario to work, he said, there would need to be “universal high income” – not to be confused with universal basic income, although he did not share what that could look like. (UBI refers to the government giving a certain amount of money to everyone regardless of how much they earn.)“There would be no shortage of goods or services,” he said.AI capabilities have surged over the past few years, fast enough that regulators, companies and consumers are still figuring out how to use the technology responsibly. Concerns also continue to mount over how various industries and jobs will change as AI proliferates in the market.In January, researchers at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab found workplaces are adopting AI much more slowly than some had expected and feared. The report also said the majority of jobs previously identified as vulnerable to AI were not economically beneficial for employers to automate at that time.Experts also largely believe that many jobs that require a high emotional intelligence and human interaction will not need replacing, such as mental health professionals, creatives and teachers.Musk has been outspoken about his concerns around AI. During the keynote on Thursday, he called the technology his biggest fear. He cited the “Culture Book Series” by Ian Banks, a utopian fictionalized look at a society run by advanced technology, as the most realistic and “the best envisioning of a future AI.”In a job-free future, though, Musk questioned whether people would feel emotionally fulfilled.“The question will really be one of meaning  – if the computer and robots can do everything better than you, does your life have meaning?” he said.  “I do think there’s perhaps still a role for humans in this – in that we may give AI meaning.”He also used his stage time to urge parents to limit the amount of social media that children can see because “they’re being programmed by a dopamine-maximizing AI.”The-CNN-Wire
™ & © 2024 Cable News Network, Inc., a Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All rights reserved.
Elon Musk warns about over exposure to social media for kids: 'There is extreme competition'
Writing on X (formerly Twitter) on Thursday, Elon Musk spoke about how children were vulnerable to highly developed artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms which were designed to increase user engagement by boosting dopamine levels.Tesla CEO Elon Musk has cautioned the over exposure of social media to kids. Writing on X (formerly Twitter) on Thursday, Musk spoke about how children were vulnerable to highly developed artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms which were designed to increase user engagement by boosting dopamine levels."A lot of social media is bad for kids, as there is extreme competition between social media AIs to maximize dopamine!" Musk wrote on the social media platform.
    A lot of social media is bad for kids, as there is extreme competition between social media AIs to maximize dopamine! https://t.co/bzB8m5qL9z    — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) May 23, 2024Musk's post saw a lot of user comments, who agreed with him on the drawbacks associated with over exposure of social media to kids."Parents need to limit screen time. Kids still need to go outside and play. Read books. It's truly sad how much social media has impacted children's lives," one user wrote.Elon Musk makes chilling AI prediction as he opens up about his ‘biggest fear and hope’
Tesla CEO Elon Musk on Thursday revealed his biggest fear and biggest hope while making a grim forecast about artificial intelligence.Tesla CEO Elon Musk on Thursday revealed his biggest fear and biggest hope while making a grim forecast about artificial intelligence.
US businessman Elon Musk addresses participants via videoconference during the 8th edition of the Vivatech technology startups and innovation fair, at the Porte de Versailles exhibition centre in Paris, on May 23, 2024. (Photo by MIGUEL MEDINA / AFP)(AFP) 
Speaking via webcam at VivaTech 2024 in Paris, Musk talked about the future of AI, warning attendees that it will take over the majority of their work. He also issued a chilling warning to parents by stressing that technology is harming children.According to the billionaire, "none of us will have a job" when AI will evolve and grow. “If you want to do a job that's kinda like a hobby, you can do a job. But otherwise, AI and the robots will provide any goods and services that you want.”Calling AI is "biggest fear", the Space X CEO stated that his "biggest hope is Mars" and he intends to send people to Mars "probably within 10 years, maybe seven to eight".Artificial intelligence has advanced swiftly in recent years. However, researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab discovered in January that organisations are embracing AI at a much slower rate than experts projected and worried.According to CNN, experts believe that AI cannot replace certain vocations that demand high degrees of cognitive ability, such as teachers, professionals in psychology, and creatives.Elon Musk makes chilling AI prediction as he opens up about his ‘biggest fear and hope’
ByShweta Kukreti
May 24, 2024 03:16 PM IST
Tesla CEO Elon Musk on Thursday revealed his biggest fear and biggest hope while making a grim forecast about artificial intelligence.Tesla CEO Elon Musk on Thursday revealed his biggest fear and biggest hope while making a grim forecast about artificial intelligence.
US businessman Elon Musk addresses participants via videoconference during the 8th edition of the Vivatech technology startups and innovation fair, at the Porte de Versailles exhibition centre in Paris, on May 23, 2024. (Photo by MIGUEL MEDINA / AFP)(AFP)
US businessman Elon Musk addresses participants via videoconference during the 8th edition of the Vivatech technology startups and innovation fair, at the Porte de Versailles exhibition centre in Paris, on May 23, 2024. (Photo by MIGUEL MEDINA / AFP)(AFP)Speaking via webcam at VivaTech 2024 in Paris, Musk talked about the future of AI, warning attendees that it will take over the majority of their work. He also issued a chilling warning to parents by stressing that technology is harming children.According to the billionaire, "none of us will have a job" when AI will evolve and grow. “If you want to do a job that's kinda like a hobby, you can do a job. But otherwise, AI and the robots will provide any goods and services that you want.”Calling AI is "biggest fear", the Space X CEO stated that his "biggest hope is Mars" and he intends to send people to Mars "probably within 10 years, maybe seven to eight".Artificial intelligence has advanced swiftly in recent years. However, researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab discovered in January that organisations are embracing AI at a much slower rate than experts projected and worried.According to CNN, experts believe that AI cannot replace certain vocations that demand high degrees of cognitive ability, such as teachers, professionals in psychology, and creatives.
Elon Musk asks ‘Does your life have meaning?’ if….During the conference, Musk mentioned Ian Banks' 'Culture Book Series,' which offers a utopian dramatised view at a community run by modern technology, and called it the most genuine and "best envisioning of a future AI."He went on to ask if humans could be satisfied with a life without jobs and careers, stressing that "if computers and robots can do everything better than you, does your life have any meaning?"The US businessman, however, added that he believes that there is "perhaps still a role for humans in this – in that we may give AI meaning."Issuing a stern warning to parents against letting their kids use technology, he advised them to limit their children's time on social media.Musk's prediction about artificial intelligence comes after he stated that "AI will be smarter than any human by the end of 2025"."There would be no shortage of goods or services," the X owner said on the future of A
In a surprise turn of events, Tesla  (TSLA)  CEO Elon Musk reversed course on a dire warning regarding Chinese automakers he made earlier this year. In an appearance at the VivaTech conference in Paris via videoconference on May 23, Musk revealed that he was against the newly rolled out tariffs implemented by the Biden administration; declaring that he's against any measures that "distort the market."
"Neither Tesla nor I asked for these tariffs, in fact I was surprised when they were announced," Musk said. "Things that inhibit freedom of exchange or distort the market are not good."“Tesla competes quite well in the market in China with no tariffs and no deferential support. I’m in favor of no tariffs."Musk's about-faceThe latest comments by Musk are an about-face to prior statements he made about Chinese automakers in the past, when he claimed they would bring doom to the industry as a whole.During Tesla's Q4 earnings call on Jan. 24, Elon Musk called Chinese car companies "the most competitive car companies in the world," and warned that they may be a problem if tariffs or any other protective measures aren't in place."I think they will have significant success outside of China depending on what kind of tariffs or trade barriers are established," Musk said. "Frankly, I think if there are not trade barriers established, they will pretty much demolish most other companies in the world."
CEOs of other auto giants agreeMusk is not alone in making these sort of statements about their Chinese competition, joining a number of CEOs in charge of other automotive household names.
    Home
    Automotive Industry, Car News and AnalysisElon Musk's latest flip-flop exposes a trend of 'going soft' on China
The Tesla CEO is not alone in adopting a critical stance on Chinese EV tariffs, but there may be more to carmaker's opinions.    James Ochoa
    May 27, 2024 10:03 AM EDT    Start Conversation In a surprise turn of events, Tesla  (TSLA)  CEO Elon Musk reversed course on a dire warning regarding Chinese automakers he made earlier this year. In an appearance at the VivaTech conference in Paris via videoconference on May 23, Musk revealed that he was against the newly rolled out tariffs implemented by the Biden administration; declaring that he's against any measures that "distort the market."
TURIN, ITALY - APRIL 10: Carlos Tavares, CEO of Stellantis attends during the Inauguration of the Hybrid and PHEV Vehicles Stellantis Group eDCT Assembly Plant on April 10, 2024 in Turin, Italy. The new Hybrid and PHEV Vehicles Stellantis Group eDCT Assembly plant will produce up to 6000 electrified transmissions for hybrid cars. To meet the growing demand for electrified vehicles and the ambitious targets presented in the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis and its joint venture partner, Punch Powertrain, signed a new agreement increasing production of the future-generation electrified dual-clutch transmissions (eDCT) for Stellantis hybrid and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV). (Photo by Stefano Guidi/Getty Images)
Stellantis CEO has stern warning about Chinese EV tariffs, as China plans retaliation
Read More"Neither Tesla nor I asked for these tariffs, in fact I was surprised when they were announced," Musk said. "Things that inhibit freedom of exchange or distort the market are not good."“Tesla competes quite well in the market in China with no tariffs and no deferential support. I’m in favor of no tariffs."
US businessman Elon Musk addresses participants via videoconference during the 8th edition of the Vivatech technology startups and innovation fair, at the Porte de Versailles exhibition centre in Paris, on May 23, 2024. (Photo by MIGUEL MEDINA / AFP) (Photo by MIGUEL MEDINA/AFP via Getty Images)Elon Musk addresses participants via videoconference during the 8th edition of the Vivatech technology startups and innovation fair, at the Porte de Versailles exhibition centre in Paris, on May 23, 2024.MIGUEL MEDINA/Getty Images
Musk's about-faceThe latest comments by Musk are an about-face to prior statements he made about Chinese automakers in the past, when he claimed they would bring doom to the industry as a whole.During Tesla's Q4 earnings call on Jan. 24, Elon Musk called Chinese car companies "the most competitive car companies in the world," and warned that they may be a problem if tariffs or any other protective measures aren't in place."I think they will have significant success outside of China depending on what kind of tariffs or trade barriers are established," Musk said. "Frankly, I think if there are not trade barriers established, they will pretty much demolish most other companies in the world."
CEOs of other auto giants agreeMusk is not alone in making these sort of statements about their Chinese competition, joining a number of CEOs in charge of other automotive household names.
Benedetto Vigna, chief executive officer of Ferrari NV, during a Bloomberg Television interview in London, UK, on Thursday, May 23, 2024. The Chinese market needs more time to mature, Vigna said. Photographer: Hollie Adams/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesBenedetto Vigna, chief executive officer of Ferrari NV, during a Bloomberg Television interview in London, UK, on Thursday, May 23, 2024.Bloomberg/Getty ImagesIn response to impending tariffs pending a June 5 deadline for a major EU probe into Chinese EVs, Ferrari CEO Benedetto Vigna stopped short of calling the competition between European automakers and its Chinese counterparts a "war," during an appearance on Bloomberg TV. He noted that the presence of Chinese vehicles on European soil should motivate automakers to produce better cars than their Eastern competition.  
"For me, this is a call to action for Europe. This is a call to action to become more [...] pushy, less complacent," Vigna told Bloomberg TV. "In my life, I was told if someone is faster than you, better that you are faster than them. This is what we are doing in Formula 1. In racing, that's what you have to do; if someone is faster, be faster than them, don't try to stop them."The Ferrari boss's comments are similar to those made by Mercedes-Benz CEO Ola Källenius. In a March 2024 interview with the Financial Times, he expressed support for lowering tariffs on Chinese EVs, supporting the idea that the impending levels of increased competition will challenge his European automaker contemporaries to make and sell higher quality cars.“Don’t raise tariffs,” Källenius told the Financial Times. “I’m a contrarian, I think go the other way around: take the tariffs that we have and reduce them … that is the market economy. Let competition play out.” 
Similarly, Stellantis CEO Carlos Tavares said in a recent interview with Reuters that impending tariffs against Chinese EV imports, including the one imposed by President Biden are a "a major trap for the countries that go on that path," noting that it would impede on an automaker's abilities to meet the price challenge faced by its new competition.
"When you fight against the competition to absorb 30% of cost competitiveness edge in favour of the Chinese, there are social consequences. But the governments, the governments of Europe, they don't want to face that reality right now," Tavares said.Additionally, he warned that a "Darwinian Chinese-led price war" will end up adding costs across the automotive supply chain; which will end up being paid with higher prices faced by consumers.
 Elon Musk says artificial intelligence will take all our jobs and that’s not necessarily a bad thing.“Probably none of us will have a job,” Musk said about AI at a tech conference on Thursday.While speaking remotely via webcam at VivaTech 2024 in Paris, Musk described a future where jobs would be “optional.”“If you want to do a job that’s kinda like a hobby, you can do a job,” Musk said. “But otherwise, AI and the robots will provide any goods and services that you want.”For this scenario to work, he said, there would need to be “universal high income” – not to be confused with universal basic income, although he did not share what that could look like. (UBI refers to the government giving a certain amount of money to everyone regardless of how much they earn.)“There would be no shortage of goods or services,” he said.AI capabilities have surged over the past few years, fast enough that regulators, companies and consumers are still figuring out how to use the technology responsibly. Concerns also continue to mount over how various industries and jobs will change as AI proliferates in the market.In January, researchers at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab found workplaces are adopting AI much more slowly than some had expected and feared. The report also said the majority of jobs previously identified as vulnerable to AI were not economically beneficial for employers to automate at that time.Experts also largely believe that many jobs that require a high emotional intelligence and human interaction will not need replacing, such as mental health professionals, creatives and teachers.Musk has been outspoken about his concerns around AI. During the keynote on Thursday, he called the technology his biggest fear. He cited the “Culture Book Series” by Ian Banks, a utopian fictionalized look at a society run by advanced technology, as the most realistic and “the best envisioning of a future AI.”In a job-free future, though, Musk questioned whether people would feel emotionally fulfilled.“The question will really be one of meaning  – if the computer and robots can do everything better than you, does your life have meaning?” he said.  “I do think there’s perhaps still a role for humans in this – in that we may give AI meaning.”He also used his stage time to urge parents to limit the amount of social media that children can see because “they’re being programmed by a dopamine-maximizing AI.” 
PARIS, May 23 (Reuters) - Tesla (TSLA.O)
, opens new tab founder Elon Musk told tech investors in Paris on Thursday he opposed U.S. tariffs on Chinese electric vehicles (EVs), an about-face from his January warning that trade barriers were needed or China would "demolish most other car companies in the world."
On Thursday, Musk said he did not favour measures that distorted the market.Stay up to date with the latest news, trends and innovations that are driving the global automotive industry with the Reuters Auto File newsletter. Sign up here.
This month, U.S. President Joe Biden rolled out new tariffs on an array of Chinese imports, including EVs, seeking to support American manufacturing.
The Biden administration has maintained a number of tariffs introduced by former President Donald Trump, while ratcheting up others, including quadrupling EV duties to more than 100%. The White House said the new measures affect $18 billion in imported Chinese goods.
"Neither Tesla nor I asked for these tariffs, in fact I was surprised when they were announced. Things that inhibit freedom of exchange or distort the market are not good," Musk said at the Viva Technology conference in Paris via video link.
“Tesla competes quite well in the market in China with no tariffs and no deferential support. I’m in favour of no tariffs," Musk said.
In January, Musk warned Chinese automakers would "demolish" global competitors without trade barriers.
"If there are no trade barriers established, they will pretty much demolish most other car companies in the world," Musk said in a post-earnings analyst call at the start of the year.
Leading tech executives and political figures such as ex-Google (GOOGL.O)
, opens new tab CEO Eric Schmidt and former U.S. climate envoy John Kerry took to the stage this year at the annual VivaTech conference.He also discussed how AI could transform education and said parents would still need to be responsible for values and morals. However, AI could help tailor lessons, he said, so that each child could have Albert Einstein as a teacher.He was not concerned about AI’s effect on children but said he was worried about social media, despite owning his own social media company since 2022, which has been criticised as a place of disinformation and rampant hate speech.“I do worry kids these days are trained by social media, which are dopamine maximisers. I’d urge parents to limit social media to children because they are being programmed”.
A job-free futureAs for the question as to whether if AI would take our jobs, Musk said he envisioned a future where people would not work.“In a benign scenario, probably none of us will have a job,” he said, adding that there would be a universal high income and people would not be lacking goods or services. But the question for people would be finding meaning.Audience members’ questions turned existential, with one asking if he could time travel, what would he tell his younger self?He said he felt “classic time travel problem,” which is would life be altered for the worst and change the outcome.“Overall I’m happy with how things turned out – I probably wouldn’t do anything. You don’t know if it comes out with a worse outcome,” he said.“I’d be curious to see a younger me, but I’d probably stay invisible and not say anything”.However, keeping quiet might be as much a challenge for a time-travelling Musk as the real Musk.
In Short    Elon Musk alleges the goal of Democrats is to legalise 15 million immigrants
    Says 2024 US polls would be 'last real election' if Trump loses to Kamala Harris
    Warns legalising immigrants would turn swing states permanently DemocraticTesla CEO Elon Musk has blasted the Democratic Party over the issue of illegal immigration in the US, saying that the upcoming presidential polls in November would be the nation's "the last real election" if Republican nominee Donald Trump loses to his rival, Vice President Kamala Harris.The tech billionaire also alleged that the goal of almost all Democratic leaders was to "legalise 15 million illegal immigrants as soon as possible, as well as bring in tens of millions more".    The publicly-stated goal by almost all leaders of the Democratic Party is to legalize the ~15 million illegal migrants as soon as possible, as well as bring in tens of millions more.    That would immediately make all swing states deep blue, just like happened in California with... https://t.co/uLQbaopUQc — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) September 10, 2024advertisementHe also alleged that if the Democrats succeeded in doing so, it "would immediately make all swing states deep blue, just like happened in California with the 1986 amnesty, turning America into a permanent one-party stat
Swing states, or battleground states, are where either the Republican or Democratic candidate can win due to a change in voter support."This is the last real election if Trump loses," Musk added.The tech billionaire's tweet came a day after Trump reiterated a crackdown on illegal immigrants and accused them of "stealing jobs and killing Americans".Addressing supporters in Mosinee, Wisconsin, the former President on Monday presented migrants as a grave danger to the state, warning without evidence that immigrants in the country illegally could evict local residents from their homes."Crime is through the roof, and you haven't seen the migrant crime yet. It started, and it's vicious, but you haven't seen the extent of it yet," news agency Reuters quoted Trump as saying.
Similar to what Musk said in his tweet, the Republican nominee said the "2024 election could be the nation's last".Meanwhile, on her part, Harris has reiterated that the immigration system in the US is "broken and requires a legislative fix".Her new presidential campaign website, which went online on Sunday, says that she vows to establish an “earned pathway to citizenship” for illegal immigrants.“She knows that our immigration system is broken and needs comprehensive reform that includes strong border security and an earned pathway to citizenship,” says the website.“As President, she will bring back the bipartisan border security bill and sign it into law."